Hi friends
In this video we're going to discuss the need for code indentation and comments.
So indentation and comments improve the
readability and understandability of a programme
First let us discuss about the need for code indentation
So as we just learnt, the purpose of code indentation
is to make the program more readable and understandable
So see an example programme
Here it is hard to understand which statements comes under
which block and it is not really readable also. so
the solution to this problem is that we can give
four spaces for the statements which are inside the main
function
Now we can easily understand that the integer variable declaration
for i and the for loop are inside the main
function
But if we see there is an ambiguity here. so the
thing is, is the printf statement inside the main
function or inside the for loop?
Actually it comes under for loop .but it might create
a confusion. So again
We can give four spaces to the printf statement
Now it's all very structured and crystal clear that int i
and for loop comes under main function and printf
comes under the for loop. so this is how code
indentation improves the programme understandability
Now let us discuss about the need for comments. Assume
that you working in a company and you have developed
some features
Now you have left the company for some reason and
a new person had joined the company and he needs
to develop the feature further. if the code is
not documented properly
The newly joined person feels difficult understand the code and
it is also impractical to call the old person and
ask the information about the code
So what is the solution to this problem? So it's
actually the programmer's responsibility to add the appropriate comments while
developing the code and it is also called as documentation
And using these comments
Other people can easily understand your code
So in two ways we can add comments in a
C Programme. First one is Single line comment
It is used to describe a single line comment
It begins with the double slash and you can see
an example here
We have code if N less than 0
N=-N so we can write a
comment like this to understand it better and these statements
that are written after double slash will be ignored by
the compiler and the second method to add comments in
C is using multi line comments.
Using this we can add multi line code explanation
It begins with a /* and ends with a
*/
You can see an example here
We have a programme here to find the absolute value
so we can write the details of the programme written
as multi line comments like this and this will help
any programmer understand the programme and not just the actual
developer
And again the statements inside this will be ignored by
the compiler and  this is
How comments help to understand the programme
So that's all and thank you for watching this video.